# Review Blog 2


#### Project:
Mapping the Latinx Great Migrations
#### Project Director:
James Gregory
#### Project URL:
https://depts.washington.edu/moving1/map_latinx_migration.shtml 

### Summary of Project
In my second review blog, I will be reviewing “[Mapping the Latinx Great Migrations](https://depts.washington.edu/moving1/map_latinx_migration.shtml),” created by James Gregory through the Civil Rights and Labor History Consortium at the University of Washington. This particular project, which introduces and analyzes the history of Latinx migration between 1850 and 2017, is a part of a larger project titled, “America’s Great Migrations Project,” which covers Latinx migration, as well as Black and Asian American migration, the Southern Diaspora, and the Dust Bowl migration. “Mapping the Latinx Great Migrations” was created for the purpose of educating readers about the migrational patterns and their correlated causes for migration throughout history, spanning from 1850 all the way to 2017, through a chronological telling of the migratory paths, as well as interactive maps to visualize these paths. The visualization categories included by the project are as follows: Latinx population by state and decade 1850-2017, national backgrounds by state and decade, US born and non-US born by state and decade, born outside US states by decade, and population by decade and national background.

### Assessment of Humanistic Claims 
In regards to the field of humanities that “Mapping the Latinx Great Migrations” demonstrates, history and human geography are the best fits for this particular project. The purpose of the project is to educate readers on Latinx migrational patterns and their correlated causes from 1850 to 2017, which spans nearly two hundred years worth of history. In order to understand the maps, charts, and tables created by the author, one must first read through the historical material provided to create context for why certain maps and decades see changes in the number of Latinx individuals migrating to particular regions of the United States. Since migration is the physical movement of individuals from one region to another, oftentimes occurring over many decades or even centuries, and human geography is the study of interrelationships between people, places, and environments, this is also considered an important humanistic aspect of the project, though this is not noted in this particular project’s description.

Because of the author’s use of several forms of data visualization, the historical happenings detailed in the project’s description of Latinx migration are much easier for the reader to understand and visualize. However, the information does become a bit muddled when there are so many charts and graphs representing such a large span of time in history to look through and analyze. The project would likely have benefitted from a more in-depth analysis or essay to better describe and analyze the two centuries of Latinx migration covered in its project descriptions and corresponding visualizations. That being said, the data featured in said graphs and maps is still relatively easy to understand and comes from the U.S. Census Bureau, with sources linked directly below the mapping feature, and does note and explain inconsistencies in the questions asked by the Census Bureau pertaining to race and ethnicity in earlier eras and how this may have affected how the data was categorized for the project. 

### Assessment of the Technology Used
In “Mapping the Latinx Great Migrations,” author James Gregory utilizes six interactive maps, charts, and tables to display U.S. Census Bureau data pertaining to the history of Latinx migration into the U.S. and within its borders. The data illustrated by these interactive visual elements are categorized into six categories: Latinx population by state and decade 1850-2017 (map), national backgrounds by state and decade (map), US born and non-US born by state and decade (map), born outside US states by decade (map), and population by decade and national background (chart); though, I was not able to identify the sixth category of data displayed on the website, as only four interactive maps and one chart is present on the page. 

Regardless, these maps, charts, and tables illustrate Latinx migratory patterns and historical data better than if readers were only provided with a chart of numbers and states by decade, as this information is sometimes difficult to visualize for those less mathematically-inclined _(such as myself)_. With the interactive element, which allows readers to more closely examine data organized within the visualizations, there is no need to attempt to decipher hundreds of data sets pertaining to the influx of Latinx populations throughout two centuries worth of history, as readers can scroll their mouse over whatever part of the U.S. you’d like to know about and the differences in population number between national backgrounds and the like can be seen clearly in the larger or smaller bubble size, bar height, or chart size on the maps.
